\begin{theorem}\label{thm:unique_equilibrium}
System \eqref{eq:matrixODE} subject to \eqref{eq:cons} has a unique,
stable equilibrium $\mathbf{\bar{x}} > \mathbf{0}$.
\end{theorem}
\begin{proof}  Each equilibrium of the system, $\{\mathbf{\bar{x}}
~|~\mathbf{M}\mathbf{K}\mathbf{y(\bar{x})} = \mathbf{0}\}$, can be
classified as either a {\it positive} equilibrium $\mathbf{\bar{x}}
> \mathbf{0}$ or a {\it boundary} equilibrium in which $\bar{x}_i
= 0$ for some $i$, which can be found by solving
$\mathbf{y(\mathbf{\bar{x}})} =
\mathbf{0}$~\cite{Chaves:2004p11839}.  From definition
\eqref{eq:ydef1} of $\mathbf{y(x)}$, it can be concluded that in
each boundary equilibrium, all $x_i = 0$ except for one of the four
combinations of variables $(x_1,x_3), (x_1,x_4), (x_2,x_3),
(x_2,x_4)$.  Since we only consider systems that can produce
$x_{F1}$ and $x_{F2}$, it is not possible for the system to reach
any of these equilibria; each one lacks two part types needed for
the final assemblies.

%whose rows are each obtained by subtracting a column of $\mathbf{M}$
%associated with a reactant in a particular reaction from a column
%associated with a product

The {\it deficiency} $\delta$ of a reaction network is the number of
complexes minus the number of linkage classes, each of which is a
set of complexes connected by reactions, minus the network rank,
which is the rank of the matrix with rows $\mathbf{m}_i -
\mathbf{m}_j$, $(i,j) \in \cal{E}$ \cite{Feinberg:1995p9419}.
 Network \eqref{eq:reduced_macro_continuous} has $12$ complexes, $6$
linkage classes, and rank $6$; hence, $\delta = 0$.  Also, the
network is {\it weakly reversible} because whenever there is a
directed arrow pathway from complex $i$ to complex $j$, there is one
from $j$ to $i$.  Because the network has deficiency $0$, is weakly
reversible, and does not admit any boundary equilibria, it has a
unique, globally asymptotically stable positive equilibrium
according to Theorem 4.1 of \cite{Siegel:2000}.
\end{proof}

%These properties, along with the fact that the system kinetics are
%mass-action, satisfy the criteria for applying the Deficiency Zero
%Theorem \cite{Feinberg:1995p9419}, which gives the result that the
%system has exactly one positive steady state, which is
%asymptotically stable.  In fact, by Theorem 4.1 of
%\cite{Siegel:2000}

%\cite{Feinberg:1987p9428}